BD-3318-1 Custom Events Diataxis application (#7943)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_user_guide/data_and_analytics/custom_data/custom_events.md

- Leveraging [persistent entry properties]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/canvas_persistent_entry_properties/) to use metadata from your customer event for personalization in your Canvas steps
- Generating more sophisticated analytics with [Currents]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/braze_currents)
- Setting up Canvas [exception events]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/exception_events#canvas-exception-events) to define when users shouldn't advance to the next step of your Canvas

## Managing custom events

You can manage, create, or blocklist custom events in the dashboard by going to **Data Settings** > **Custom Events**.

{% alert note %}
If you're using the [older navigation]({{site.baseurl}}/navigation), you can find **Custom Events** under **Manage Settings**.
{% endalert %}

Select the menu next to a custom event for the following actions:

### Blocklisting

You can blocklist individual custom events through the actions menu, or select and blocklist up to 10 events in bulk. 

When you block a custom event:

> - Future data won't be collected for that event
> - Existing data won't be available unless that event is unblocked
> - That event won't show up in filters or graphs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Future data won't be collected for that event.
- Existing data won't be available unless that event is unblocked.
- That event won't show up in filters or graphs.
```

Additionally, if a blocked custom event is currently referenced by filters or triggers in other areas of Braze, a warning modal will appear explaining that all instances of the filters or triggers that reference it will be removed and archived.

### Adding descriptions

You can add a description to a custom event after it's created if you have the `Manage Events, Attributes, Purchases` [user permission]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/user_permissions/). Select **Edit description** for the custom event and input whatever you like, such as a note for your team.

## Adding tags

> You can add tags to a custom event after it's created if you have the `Manage Events, Attributes, Purchases` [user permission]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/user_permissions/). The tags can then be used to filter the list of events. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add tags to a custom event after it's created if you have the "Manage Events, Attributes, Purchases" [user permission]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/user_permissions/). The tags can then be used to filter the list of events. 
```

{% alert important %}
This feature is currently in early access. Contact your customer success manager if you're interested in participating in this early access.
{% endalert %}

### Viewing usage reports

The usage report lists all the Canvases, campaigns, and segments using a specific custom event. The list doesn't include uses of Liquid. 

You can view up to 10 usage reports at a time by selecting the checkboxes for multiple custom events and then selecting **View usage report**.

## Exporting data

> To export the list of custom events as a CSV file, select the **Export all** button at the top of the page. The CSV file will generate and a download link will be emailed to you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export the list of custom events as a CSV file, select the **Export all** button at the top of the page. The CSV file will be generated, and a download link will be emailed to you.
```

| Data Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Numbers | As either [integers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integer) or [floats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floating-point_arithmetic) |
| Booleans | Value of `true` or `false`. |
| Datetimes | Formatted as strings in [ISO-8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) or `yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss:SSSZ` format. Not supported within arrays. |
| Strings | 255 characters or fewer. |
| Arrays | Arrays cannot include datetimes. |
| Objects | Objects will be ingested as strings. |
| Nested objects | Objects that are inside of other objects. For more, see the section in this article on [Nested objects](#nested-objects).
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2}

> Event property objects that contain array or object values can have a maximum event property payload of 50&nbsp;KB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event property objects that contain array or object values can have an event property payload up to 50&nbsp;KB.
```

For example, if you have a gaming app and want to send a message to users who completed a level, you could further personalize your message with a property for the time it took users to complete that level. In this example, the message is personalized for three different segments using [conditional logic][18]. The custom event property called `time_spent` can be included in the message by calling ``{% raw %} {{event_properties.${time_spent}}} {% endraw %}``.

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if {{event_properties.${time_spent}}} < 600 %}
Incredible work, hero! Are you ready to test your skills against other powerful heroes? Visit the Arena for real-time battles with top players from around the globe.
{% elsif {{event_properties.${time_spent}}} < 1800 %}
Great job, hero! Don't forget to visit the town store between levels to upgrade your tools.
{% else %}
Well done, hero! Talk to villagers for tips on how to beat levels faster and unlock more rewards.
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}

{% alert warning %}

> If the user doesn't have internet connection, triggered in-app messages with templated custom event properties (for example, {% raw %}``{{event_properties.${time_spent}}}``{% endraw %}) will fail and not display.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user doesn't have an internet connection, triggered in-app messages with templated custom event properties (for example, {% raw %}``{{event_properties.${time_spent}}}``{% endraw %}) will fail and not display.
```

For in-app message channels specifically, `canvas_entry_properties` can only be referenced in Canvas Flow and the original Canvas editor if you have persistent entry properties enabled in the original editor as part of the previous early access.
{% endalert %}

> For Canvas Flow messaging, `canvas_entry_properties` can be used within any Message step in this Liquid format: ``{% raw %} canvas_entry_properties.${property_name} {% endraw %}``. Note that the events must be custom events or purchase events to be used this way. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Canvas Flow messaging, `canvas_entry_properties` can be used in any Message step with this Liquid format: ``{% raw %} canvas_entry_properties.${property_name} {% endraw %}``. Note that the events must be custom events or purchase events to be used this way. 
```

{% if  {{canvas_entry_properties.${product_name}}} == "shoes" %}
  Your order is set to ship soon. While you're waiting, why not step up your shoe care routine with a little upgrade? Check out our selection of shoelaces and premium shoe polish.
{% else %}

>   Your order will be on its way shortly. If you missed something, you have until the end of the week to add any additional items to your cart and apply the same discounts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Your order will be on its way shortly. If you missed something, you have until the end of the week to add more items to your cart for the same discounts.
```
